Reorganized Backends Docs Page (#2481)
NVIDIA/cuda-quantum: docs/sphinx/using/examples/multi_gpu_workflows.rst

Multi-GPU Workflows
===================

> There are many backends available with CUDA-Q that enable seamless

Reviewer: @mawolf2023 : Is this the file you are referring to?

    { 00:475 11:525 }

> As the number of qubits increases to even modest size, the CPU simulation will become impractically slow.  By switching to the :code:`nvidia` backend, you can accelerate the same code on a single GPU and achieve a speedup of up to **2500x**.  If you have a GPU available, this the default backend to ensure maximum productivity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the number of qubits increases to even modest size, the CPU simulation will become impractically slow.  By switching to the :code:`nvidia` backend, you can accelerate the same code on a single GPU and achieve a speedup of up to **425x**.  If you have a GPU available, this the default backend to ensure maximum productivity.
```

    { 0000000000000000000000000:510 1111111111111111111111111:490 }

Pooling the memory of multiple GPUs (`mgpu`)
---------------------------------------------

As :code:`N` gets larger, the size of the state vector that needs to be stored in memory increases exponentially. 
The state vector has :math:`2^N` elements, each a complex number requiring 8 bytes. This means a 30 qubit simulation 
requires roughly 8 GB. Adding a few more qubits will quickly exceed the memory of as single GPU.  The `mqpu` backend 
solved this problem by pooling the memory of multiple GPUs across multiple nodes to perform a single state vector simulation. 

.. image:: images/mgpu.png

If you have multiple GPUs, you can use the following command to run the simulation across :math:`n` GPUs. 

> :code:`mpiexec -np n python3 program.py --target nvidia --target-option mgpu`

Reviewer 2: Should also mention the set_target() command

This code will execute in an MPI context and provide additional memory to simulation much larger state vectors.

> Batching Hamiltonian Terms (`mqpu`)

Reviewer 2: I think that batching hamiltonian term is an example of mqpu. Let's call it something like 'Parallel execution over multiple QPUs'

------------------------------------

> Multiple GPUs can also come in handy for cases where applications might benefit from multiple QPUs running asynchronously.  The `mqpu` backend uses multiple GPUs to simulate each QPU so you can test and accelerate quantum applications with parallelization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Multiple GPUs can also come in handy for cases where applications might benefit from multiple QPUs running in parallel.  The `mqpu` backend uses multiple GPUs to simulate QPUs so you can accelerate quantum applications with parallelization.
```

.. image:: images/mqpu.png

The most simple example is Hamiltonian Batching. In this case, an expectation value of a large Hamiltonian is distributed across multiple simulated QPUs, where each QPUs evaluates a subset of the Hamiltonian terms. 

.. image:: ../../applications/python/images/hsplit.png

The code below evaluates the expectation value of a random 100000 term Hamiltonian. A standard :code:`observe` call will run the program on a single GPU.  Adding the argument :code:`execution=cudaq.parallel.thread` or :code:`execution=cudaq.parallel.mpi` will automatically distribute the Hamiltonian terms across multiple GPUs on a single node or multiple GPUs on multiple nodes, respectively.  

The code is executed with :code:`mpiexec -np n python3 program.py --target nvidia --target-option mqpu` where :math:`n` is the number of GPUs available. 

   
.. literalinclude:: ../../snippets/python/using/examples/multi_gpu_workflows/hamiltonian_batching.py
    :language: python
    :start-after: [Begin Docs]
    :end-before: [End Docs]

> Circuit Batching (`mqpu`)

Reviewer 2: I think this is a second example of mqpu and should be under the same section title of mqpu

    { 0000000000000000000000000:510 1111111111111111111111111:490 }

Pooling the memory of multiple GPUs (`mgpu`)
---------------------------------------------

As :code:`N` gets larger, the size of the state vector that needs to be stored in memory increases exponentially. 
The state vector has :math:`2^N` elements, each a complex number requiring 8 bytes. This means a 30 qubit simulation 
requires roughly 8 GB. Adding a few more qubits will quickly exceed the memory of as single GPU.  The `mqpu` backend 
solved this problem by pooling the memory of multiple GPUs across multiple nodes to perform a single state vector simulation. 

.. image:: images/mgpu.png

If you have multiple GPUs, you can use the following command to run the simulation across :math:`n` GPUs. 

:code:`mpiexec -np n python3 program.py --target nvidia --target-option mgpu`

This code will execute in an MPI context and provide additional memory to simulation much larger state vectors.

> You can also set :code:`cudaq.set_target('nvidia', option='mgpu')` within the file to select the target.

Reviewer 3: Should we add `fp{32,64}` to the `set_target` command here?

```python
cudaq.set_target('nvidia', option='mgpu,fp32')
```
or
```python
cudaq.set_target('nvidia', option='mgpu,fp64')
```

Author: @mitchdz It certainly would not hurt.  We do discuss the fp options in the MGPU section, but if it is added with a brief mention that is only helpful.

.. parsed-literal::

    1.1754660606384277

    
Multi-QPU + Other Backends (`remote-mqpu`)
-------------------------------------------
    
    

> The `mqpu` backend can be extended so that each parallel simulated QPU can be simulated with backends other than :code:`nvidia`.  This provides a way to simulate larger scale circuits and execute parallel algorithms. This accomplished by launching remotes servers which each simulated a QPU.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `mqpu` backend can be extended so that each parallel simulated QPU run backends other than :code:`nvidia`.  This provides a way to simulate larger scale circuits and execute parallel algorithms. This accomplished by launching remotes servers which each simulated a QPU.  
```
